---
title: "Kubernetes @ Home"
date: 2017-12-13
---

For many years now, I have a Jenkins running at home, for my personal projects.
The problem is that, it's running on my laptop.
So, I basically have a setup where Jenkins tells me "it works on [your] computer".
This is far from ideal.

## Following home's lab
There are 2 articles I read recently which gave me the motivation to have a proper setup at home.
Few days ago, the excellent Jessie Frazelle wrote a post about labs at home.
If you have read it, pause here and go read it: [Home Lab is the Dopest Lab](https://blog.jessfraz.com/post/home-lab-is-the-dopest-lab/).
Few weeks ago, Carolyn Van Slyck wrote a suite of articles on how she used NUCs to create her DVDs digitalization pipeline. Same thing, go read her articles, they are excellent: [My Little Cluster Story](http://carolynvanslyck.com/blog/2017/10/my-little-cluster/).

## What's the connection?
Well, my Jenkins is my lab.
I use it to build side project, to experiment.
But I don't have it running all the time.
For example, at the time I write this line, I haven't started it for 4weeks..

So I want to setup it correctly.
I could simply buy a NUC and install Jenkins on it.
That would be it.

But I'd like to leverage the NUC to run my side projects as well.
So Kubernetes.

## Why Kubernetes?
First, everyone's speaking about it.
Second, I might need to understand it, use it for my job.
Third, why not?

So, before buying anything, I'll setup a minikube instance on my laptop (again).
Make sure I can really use and understand K8S (as the cool kids say).
Then I'll setup properly a NUC with my Jenkins.
I'll see after that if I need more of them.

So yes, at first it'll be a one node k8s cluster..

I'll try to "document" my experiment here.
It won't be glorious (like if anyone read this..) but it might worth the time, so I make sure I do understand what I'm doing.
